# SQL-EER--Relational-Algebra--Optimazation
Design a database of website for booking airplane tickets from various Airlines which included designing EER model, Normalization, EER Reduction, Functional dependencies, SQL, Relational Algebra and Optimization
Airline Company
Note: Some parts of this description are intentionally left vague to allow you to implement parts with your own inspiration. Make sure to check Question 4 during the modelling for a minimum list of functional requirements. You can of course also expand entities with additional attributes if needed. Creativity is highly appreciated so do not limit yourself to the description below! While the topic is different, certain elements and design choices are similar to the ’Car Dealership Company’ topic of 1st session.
You are tasked to design a website for booking air plane tickets from various different airlines. Each airline has its own IATA code1 that uniquely identifies this airline (e.g. Brussels Airlines uses SN). An airline can configure information such as its website, travel guidelines and policies.
Your database should also contain a list of all airports, uniquely identified with the IATA code2 and in addition contain the location and any other relevant information.
Each airline offers multiple flight routes that start at a depart and arrive at an airport. Each flight route from an airline has a flight number that identifies the direction of travel. This flight number is reused for every flight from that particular airline in a specific direction (i.e. SN3176 from Rome to Brussels Airport is reused every day). Each individual flight departs and arrives at a specific date and time. They have a set of options that can be booked, such as (but not limited to) check-in luggage, transport of pets or in-flight meals. These options and their price can be configured by airline users (see next paragraph). Each flight has a price per person and per class (e.g. economic, first class, business class). This price can vary depending on the date of the flight, so it is not fixed for the flight number (e.g. a flight to Thailand is cheaper during the winter than in the summer). Every flight number is bound to a specific aircraft type that has a limited amount of passengers in each class.
The database should contain different types of users on the website: moderators who verify that all information is correctly entered, customers who can book flights and airlines who can add new flights to the system or modify existing flight information and options. An airline user can modify the prices of listed flights and options. Prices can change often (e.g. due to events), but this should not change the price for customers who already booked a flight.
Customers can book one or more (connecting/return) flights for themselves or other passengers.
3
Each passenger should be identified with a name and valid passport number . For every flight the customer should specify the class and options
